# Advent of Code 2024

![Advent of Code](https://img.shields.io/badge/Advent%20of%20Code-2024-brightgreen)
![Language](https://img.shields.io/badge/Language-Go-blue)
![Days Completed](https://img.shields.io/badge/Days%20Completed-18-orange)

## About Advent of Code

[Advent of Code](https://adventofcode.com/) is an annual event where participants solve daily programming puzzles, each
released in the form of a two-part challenge. The challenges cover various topics, and participants often use the
opportunity to sharpen their problem-solving and coding skills.

## About My Approach

I was aiming to:

* utilize my knowledge of algorithms and data structures;
* make solutions as general as I could;
* prioritize code readability over how fast I can write the solution â€” I didn't try to compete on global leaderboard.

### Day 2: Red-Nosed Reports

In part 2 my idea was to iterate solely over differences of adjacent levels in reports, and look for anomalies. In case
of an anomaly is found, we should remove some level, and simply reuse solution from part 1 on the new report. In
general, when we encounter an anomaly, it consists of one or two diffs, and therefore at most three levels might
contribute to it. I simply tro to remove each level, and if any of the resulting reports is safe, then we found a level
that is safe to remove.

We can do it, because we can't skip an anomaly once we found it. If we wouldn't fix it, we'd have an unsafe report in
the beginning.

Solution runs in `O(N)` time of input data, and in the worst case processes all the input 4 times. The worst case is an
anomaly in the beginning that can be fixed by removing 3rd level in the corresponding report.

### Day 5: Print Queue

Part 1 was about verifying if the slice is topologically sorted, and part 2 was about topologically sorting a given
slice. Seems that the graph constructed in such a way that this sorting is unique.

I liked the fact that we need to return a middle element of a slice :) Because DFS returns topological sorting in
reverse order, and we didn't need to reverse the slice to answer the question.

### Day 6: Guard Gallivant

That's literally the first time when I implemented go1.23's iterators! And I like the result that I could separate
iteration from business logic.

### Day 7: Bridge Repair

Trick to concatenate numbers using arithmetic operations is quite easy, but nevertheless is nice!

And despite it being on the surface, I like how I engineered the code to accept operations. It helped me to avoid code
duplication, and, to be fair to double-check implementation. Because initially I guessed argument order, but I had to be
mindful about it after I extracted operations into separate functions.

### Day 15: Warehouse Woes

I used BFS to find all boxes that robot would push. Then I moved them one by one, from the most far to the nearest
layer.

### Day 16: Reindeer Maze

First part can be solved by BFS, but I used Dijkstra's algorithm for both parts, because I started modifying my solution
to make it solve both parts.

To account for turns I represent map in 3D, where 3rd dimension is direction of a reindeer.

To find all shortest paths, for each visited tile I store list of previous tiles that lead to the current tile with the
same score. It was a nice addition to Dijkstra's algorithm that I've never thought of before!

### Day 17: Chronospatial Computer

I wholeheartedly enjoy puzzles where you need to craft some sort of interpreter or virtual machine! I saw some design
challenges and want to explore more about the VM architecture. For example, the most obvious flaw to me is that in my
code I have too tight coupling between the VM itself and the instruction set.

Part 2 was the most difficult for me so far. I did spot the pattern that the program has a cycle until register A equals
to 0, and did spot that we divide A by three every iteration. Unfortunately, it was not enough for me to draw any
conclusions. So I had to resort to Reddit for hints, and the most groundbreaking one for me was that we should build the
value for A by comparing the suffix of the program, instead of the prefix.
